
Patrice Godefroid received a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering
(Computer Science elective) and a Ph.D. degree in Computer Science
from the University of Liege, Belgium, in 1989 and 1994 respectively.
From 1994 to 2006, he worked at AT&T/Lucent Bell Laboratories, where 
he was promoted to "distinguished member of technical staff" in 2001.
From 2006 to 2021, he worked at Microsoft Research, where he was
promoted to Partner Researcher in 2012. From 2022 to 2024, he was
a Distinguished Engineer at Lacework. His area of expertise includes
software model checking, program analysis, testing, verification,
security, and software engineering.

Patrice is probably best known for his early work on partial-order
reduction for model checking concurrent systems (his PhD thesis is
published as LNCS volume 1032 by Springer), for his work on VeriSoft,
the first software model checker for mainstream programming languages
such as C and C++, for his work on 3-valued model checking with
may/must abstractions for sound program verification and
falsification, and for his work on automatic test generation with
DART. More recently, he co-developed SAGE, the first whitebox fuzzer
for security testing, which was credited to have found roughly one
third of all the security vulnerabilities discovered by file fuzzing
during the development of Microsoft's Windows 7. In 2015, he
co-founded Project Springfield, the first commercial cloud fuzzing
service. In 2017, he co-created RESTler, the first stateful 
REST API fuzzing tool for automatically testing cloud services through
their APIs and finding security and reliability bugs in these services.
In 2022, he joined Lacework, a fast-growing cloud security start-up,
to co-found its Code Security team; Lacework was acquired by Fortinet
in 2024.
